I could tell you were lonely
From the moment you walked in
From the way you had your makeup on
From the way you'd done your hair
From the way you sat down next to me
From the way you ordered your drink
From the moment you put your hand on my knee
I knew I'd have you with ease
Do you come here often?
Do you know how this thing works?
Do you go to bed with a different man every night?
Don't tell me, I'm the first?
You must have heard about me
Everyone knows my name
Everyone knows I'm holy (holy, holy, holy, holy)
All the revolutionaries (holy, holy)
All the Jihadis too (holy, holy)
'Round the world I'm holy (holy, holy)
Holy, holy, holy, holy
Holy, holy, holy, holy
Holy, holy, holy, holy
Holy, holy
Do you know my name? Of course you know my name
Everyone does, it's true
It's true, it's true, it's true
That I'm known around here
The barmaids know my name
I've had them all before
You are new, I'll have you too
It's time to give in
From the shores of Havana
To Moscow and Tokyo
In French Guyanese, in Cantonese
Everyone knows my name
All the revolutionaries (holy, holy)
All the Jihadis too (holy, holy)
Everyone knows I'm holy (holy, holy)
How 'bout we dance some salsa? (Holy, holy)
I'll spin you round and round (holy, holy)
On the dance floor, I'm holy (holy, holy)
How 'bout we take this further? (Holy, holy)
I'll meet you in the bathroom (bathroom) (holy, holy)
I'll bet your pussy is holy too
I'll arrive at around 7 p.m.
And I want you to get there no later than ten
I want you to be dressed like a sophisticated tart
With too much makeup on, will that be alright?
And I want you to sit down next to me, as if by chance
I want it to seem like we've never met before
How much will that cost?
I want you to look unsure of yourself
And I want you to look at me as if I'm attractive
I want your eyes to say, "Take me"
And I want your lips to be unimpressed
And I want you to ask the waiter if I really am who I say I am
And I want you to blush
I want you to shoot a smug look at the other girls
To make them jealous I chose you
When I tell you your pussy is holy
I want you to slap me and then kiss me
Make sure everyone's watching, kiss me and then walk away
Walk to the bathroom, I'll follow after
Don't worry, we won't do anything
We'll just loiter there 15 minutes or so
Then I'll choose your new lipstick and we'll walk back out
And I want you to tell me I'm a perfect dancer
And I want you to tell me I smell great
I want you to make me look taller
Could you kneel down the whole time?
How much will that cost?
I want you to put your hand on my knee
Will that be alright?
I want you to look at me as if you're lost
How much will that cost?
Thank you so much
We'll meet the same time next week
And the next week after that too
And the next week after that
And the next month, and the next