Tonight we're gonna drink 'til the streets sound like music
And the music is just noise
Tonight we're gonna drink 'til I look like Hercules
Come on, gather 'round, boys
Come close, listen in the year was 1862
Took up arms after the war was through
We knew that we could take what was left
The city was ours
We burned down their churches, built an arcade
I was a natural leader, to whom the tribesmen bowed
I strolled around in the General's clothes and had the only gun
I fired warning shots and made the children dig
I tortured all insurgents, I ruled with an iron fist
But for you, my love, I offered only grace
At the very first sight of you, I lay myself prostrate
For your touch, I have conquered every village in the land
I would have disemboweled myself just to hold your hand
I saw you appear like a dream between trees
I knew I'd have to get you to live with me
Did you deceive? Maybe so
But still, I breathe for you alone
I put them into ranks, I made them build a castle for me
And a big statue in the square
I made them carve my name on every piece of gold
I made them carve yours everywhere
On every tree, on every train, on every drop of rain
What a feeling to hold in your grip
A beating heart, to squeeze it hard 'til it bursts
To feel its blood running down your wrist
To know you are a god
Have you ever seen a man beg for his life?
Have you ever seen that kind of fear?
Have you ever seen a man boiled alive?
Have you seen him writhe and writhe, and writhe
And writhe, and writhe, and writhe
And writhe, and writhe, and writhe?
Sat on a throne of men?
Have you watched father and son fight to the death?
Have you tasted human flesh?
Have you had sex with the dead?
Have you seen a brain split in two?
Do you know what courage looks like?
Have you seen a woman give birth to a goat?
That's what courage looks like
Do you know how to fashion a boat out of bones?
Do you know what betrayal is?
Do you know what disrespect is?
Do you know what ungratefulness is?
I'll tell you all about it
Oh, but you, my love, I could never blame
All the things they say are hearsay
You, my love, are faultless, you will never die
You, my love, remain the apple of my eye
Gave me nothing but an incurable disease
For which I'm so glad, you'll always be with me
With each itch of my loins, the music of your voice
With each tremor and shake, your unmistakable voice
You help me lapse into unreason
You help me disintegrate
With this whiskey, while with me, hot in my throat
You are once again whole, I drink up your soul
Oh, oh, oh, oh
Betrayal is to overthrow the man who gave you everything
Disrespect is to blow up the city he built
Ungrateful is the savage who knows not his luck
I forgive them nothing, damn them all to hell
That's how I spent my adolescence
Who's next?
I'm listening
Who's next?
Cantonese